# STAT-451-Final-Student-performance
What factors affect a student's grades?

For our final project, we want to answer what factors may contribute to a student's success. We aim to explore how students' studying habits, socioeconomic status, and engagement in school activities contribute to their grades and academic success. The first data set that we found was a Kaggle dataset looking at how several student performance factors impact a student’s final exam score. This dataset is from Kaggle user lainguyn123. It has 19 columns on various factors and a column for the final exam score. There are 6607 rows/records and the columns range from hours studied to final exam scores. These data points will help us to answer the question we are interested in including data on parental involvement and family income as well as motivation level and attendance.


Another dataset that will help us answer this question was found on Kaggle and it looks at two Portuguese secondary schools in two distinct subjects- Portuguese Language and Mathematics. The two datasets were modeled under five-level classification and regression tasks and had 30 columns to emphasize data attributes for student grades, demographic, social, and school-related features. With the additional dataset, we can explore whether the student’s success dataset applies to different contexts and environments. Importantly, we are able to create graphs to display the interactions between the datasets and gain insights. Consequently, we are able to answer the question of the factors contributing to student’s success with the relationships between two datasets.
